None
Senior Full Stack Engineer Assignment – Inventory Hold Microservice
Overview
As part of our selection process, we would like you to build a focused Inventory Hold Microservice. This service allows the checkout system to place temporary holds on inventory items — when a customer begins checkout, their items are held so they can't be sold to another customer. Holds expire after a configurable duration.
This is a common pattern in e-commerce and reflects real problems we solve at Kibo. The assignment is designed to evaluate your ability to leverage AI-augmented development workflows to deliver production-quality features across the full stack at an accelerated pace.
We are looking for your skills in:
● Backend architecture with .NET 10 using Domain-Driven Design patterns.
● Database integration with MongoDB, including atomic operations for concurrency safety.
● Caching with Redis for performance-sensitive read paths.
● Messaging with RabbitMQ for event-driven communication.
● Containerization with Docker and docker-compose.
● Full-stack delivery with a React/TypeScript frontend.
● Testing with nUnit (or xUnit), including mocking and edge case coverage.
● AI Orchestration — using tools like Claude, Cursor, or Copilot to drive architectural quality and development velocity.
Assignment Requirements
1. Infrastructure
Provide a docker-compose.yml that starts the entire environment with a single command:
docker-compose up --build
Required services:
None
● .NET API — the Inventory Hold Service
● MongoDB — persistent data store for holds and inventory
● Redis — caching layer
● RabbitMQ — message broker for event publishing
All service connections must be configurable via environment variables or appsettings.json. Do not hardcode connection details.
2. Architecture
Structure your solution using Domain-Driven Design layering:
src/
├── InventoryHold.Contracts/ # DTOs, enums, request/response models
├── InventoryHold.Domain/
│ ├── Services/ # Business logic
│ └── Repositories/ # Data access interfaces
├── InventoryHold.Infrastructure/ # MongoDB, Redis, and RabbitMQ implementations
├── InventoryHold.WebApi/ # Controllers, DI setup, Program.cs
└── InventoryHold.UnitTests/ # Unit tests
3. Core API Endpoints
Implement the following endpoints to manage the hold lifecycle and inventory state:
● POST /api/holds — Processes a new hold request. It must verify stock levels, deduct inventory atomically if sufficient, create the hold record with a configurable expiration (default: 15 minutes), and return the hold details.
● GET /api/holds/{holdId} — Retrieves a specific hold by its ID. Must handle expired holds appropriately. Returns a 404 if the hold does not exist.
● DELETE /api/holds/{holdId} — Releases a hold and restores inventory. Must handle edge cases (non-existent holds, already-released holds, expired holds).
● GET /api/inventory — View current inventory levels. Seed the database with at least 5 products on startup.
Key constraints:
● Stock operations must be safe from race conditions using appropriate MongoDB atomic operations.
● The API should return meaningful HTTP status codes and error responses — not just 200 and 500.
● Design your data models, MongoDB document structure, and business logic as you see fit. We will evaluate your modeling decisions.
4. Messaging
When hold lifecycle events occur, publish events to RabbitMQ:
● HoldCreated — when a hold is successfully placed
● HoldReleased — when a hold is released by the customer
● HoldExpired — when a hold is detected as expired
Events should contain enough context for a downstream consumer to act on them. Design your event payloads and exchange/queue topology as you see fit.
5. Caching
Implement a caching strategy using Redis for high-frequency read paths. Determine which endpoint(s) benefit from caching, set appropriate TTLs, and ensure the cache stays consistent with the underlying data after mutations.
6. Unit Testing (Mandatory)
Provide functional unit tests using nUnit (or xUnit) covering:
● Validation logic and error handling
● Core hold lifecycle operations
● At least one concurrency or edge case scenario
Minimum 5 tests. Tests must mock the repository, cache, and messaging interfaces — they should not require running infrastructure.
Note: The solution will not be considered complete without unit test coverage.
7. Frontend
Build a single-page React application (TypeScript, Vite) that interacts with the backend API:
1. Inventory Dashboard — Display current inventory levels (product name, available quantity)
2. Create Hold — Form to select products, enter quantities, and place a hold
3. Active Holds List — Show current holds with status, items, and time remaining
4. Release Hold — Button to release a hold with confirmation
Expected:
● TypeScript with proper typing for API responses
● State management approach of your choice — we will evaluate your selection and implementation
● Inventory and hold data should stay in sync after mutations (creating/releasing a hold should reflect in inventory levels without a manual page refresh)
● Error handling (surface API errors to the user) and loading states during API calls
Not expected: Authentication, routing, pixel-perfect design. CSS framework is optional.
The frontend can run outside Docker (via npm run dev) or be included in docker-compose — your choice.
AI-Augmentation Requirement
We encourage the use of AI coding tools to complete this task. Your evaluation will consider your AI-steering capabilities. You must include an AI-USAGE.md in your repository that details:
● AI Strategy: Which tools you used and how you managed context (what information you gave the AI, how you structured prompts to match the required architecture).
● Human Audit: Specific examples of AI suggestions you accepted and ones you rejected — and why. Show us where your judgment improved on the AI's output.
● Verification: How you used AI to help generate tests, and how you validated the AI-generated code was correct.
Submission Instructions
Timeline
Please complete and submit the assignment within 2 days.
What to Share
Provide a link to your GitHub repository containing:
● Full source code, Dockerfile, and docker-compose.yml
● Unit test suite
● A README.md with setup instructions and any design decisions made
● The mandatory AI-USAGE.md
● Working one-command startup: docker-compose up --build